>> A new discovery in space may
make us rethink everything we
know about the universe.
This is Gaia News.
Scientists at the University
of Central Lancashire in the UK
have discovered a giant ark,
an extremely large crescent
structure of galaxies
in distant space.
PhD candidate Alexia Lopez who
made the discovery said, quote,
"It's so big that
it's hard to explain
with our current theories."
The cosmological
principle states
that the universe is
homogeneous and isotropic,
meaning the universe looks
the same in all orientations.
So how does the giant
ark challenge our way
of thinking about the universe?
Astronomer and Gaia news
contributor Marc Dantonio.
>> This giant ark is really
interesting because we've seen
large scale structures
before in the universe,
but nothing of this size.
The proportion of
this is something
that's actually outside
our understanding
of current cosmology, actually.
And what's
interesting about that
is that this
particular arc, it's
about 9.2 billion light
years away from us.
And it's about 3 1/2, 3.4
billion light years in size.
Now, keep in mind
that's a good fraction
of the size of the known
universe, which is somewhere
in the order of like 91
or 92 billion light years
in diameter.
We might have to
rethink everything
about what we understand about
cosmology, because the way we
think of it now in
cosmological theory
is you get to larger
and larger scales,
things become more
homogeneous in the universe,
more rounded out, more averaged.
And you shouldn't expect to see
very large scale disturbances
like this.
And we can have things
at the scale of around
a billion light years in size.
That doesn't violate our
cosmological principles
that we understand.
But this new ark
that was discovered,
it's billions of
light years across.
That's huge for something that's
supposed to be smoothed out
and homogeneous at that scale.
>> How did scientists just
discover this massive ark now?
>> In astronomy, we
can't touch anything.
So all we have is the light
coming to us from objects,
right?
And sometimes that light has to
be kind of coerced and coaxed
to give up some secrets.
In this particular
case, they were
looking at the light
of magnesium 2,
and they discovered this large
scale structure using that,
because this is a spectral
region that has never really
been explored at this
scale before, obviously.
And then what they found
was this amazing arc.
This is something
that's literally
9 billion light years away.
>> New discoveries challenge
old theories all the time.
Why is this so significant?
>> Consider that when
the universe started,
it was a big bang, and it
went like this, just boom.
It expands outward.
Well, as it expanded outward,
things become more spread out.
Things become more
distant from each other.
And larger scale
structures would
tend to not form in
our previous theory
because these would be
objects that are moving
far away from each other.
And so the universe
would become more evenly
spaced out as the
expansion continued.
And then when we
look at this finding,
we see this gigantic
structure that technically we
don't understand why it's there,
because it shouldn't be there.
If the universe
truly was as it was
expanding becoming more spread
out and more evenly spaced--
that's what I mean by
the term homogeneous.
The concept of the universe
being relatively regular
at large scales is
something that's
been a sort of a foundational
tenet of cosmology.
And this is serving to
upset the apple cart.
And we're finding out that not
only that, some of the apples
aren't apples at all.
>> What does this discovery
mean for the future of astronomy
and our understanding
of the universe?
>> We have a certain
understanding within
a framework that we understand.
And that framework
is this tunnel vision
that we have as humans.
OK.
That result works for
this, so let's keep
going in that direction.
However, sooner or later, that
tunnel is going to widen out,
but you're going
to still be looking
at the narrow beam
ahead of you and missing
all this other stuff out here.
And that's basically
what we've done here.
We've come up with
cosmological principles
based on observations.
And now the universe
is showing us
that our observations
are really quite myopic,
and we need to broaden
our understanding.
>> The team who made this
discovery ran a statistical
analysis on their data and
concluded they have a 99.9%
confidence in their results and
will continue to explore what
we can learn from
this giant arc.
For a new perspective,
this is Gaia News.
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.